.\" Copyright 2004, the OpenGLUT contributors
.Dt GLUTSETWINDOW 3 LOCAL
.Dd
.Sh NAME
.Nm glutSetWindow
.Nd Select the <i>current window</i>
.Sh LIBRARY
OpenGLUT - window
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openglut.h
.Ft  void
.Fn glutSetWindow "int ID"
.Sh PARAMETERS
.Pp
.Bf Em
 ID
.Ef
       Window identifier
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Sets the 
.Bf Li
 current window
.Ef
  to 
.Bf Sy
 ID.
.Ef
 
.Pp
All OpenGL rendering goes to the 
.Bf Li
 current window
.Ef
 .
Many OpenGLUT functions also implicitly use the
.Bf Li
 current window
.Ef
 .
.Pp
Many OpenGLUT callback operations are tied to a window.
When your callback is invoked, OpenGLUT will set that
particular window to be the 
.Bf Li
 current window
.Ef
 .
However, some callbacks---such as that registered via
glutIdleFunc()---do not have associated windows.  If
a callback is not associated to a particular window,
then when OpenGLUT invokes that callback
you should 
.Bf Em
 always
.Ef
  use glutSetWindow() to
select the appropriate window before doing any
OpenGL rendering or doing any OpenGLUT window-related
operations.
.Pp
There may be cases when you can get away with assuming
that the 
.Bf Li
 current window
.Ef
  is unchanged since some
prior time, but OpenGLUT has considerable liberaty with
respect to when it invokes your functions.  Also, your
program may add more windows or more operations on other
windows as you develop it.
.Pp
Lastly, this is a convenient way to select among
multiple windows for drawing without actually waiting
for that window's display callback.  Simply set the
.Bf Li
 current window
.Ef
  and draw immediately.  This is
not always advisable, but may be practical.
.Pp
It is an error to set the 
.Bf Li
 current window
.Ef
  to
a non-existant window (e.g., one that you have closed).
A warning will be printed on 
.Bf Sy
 stderr
.Ef
 if you
try to do so, and the 
.Bf Li
 current window
.Ef
  should be
unchanged.
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr glutGetWindow 3
.fl
.sp 3
