.\" Copyright 2004, the OpenGLUT contributors
.Dt GLUTSETOPTION 3 LOCAL
.Dd
.Sh NAME
.Nm glutSetOption
.Nd Allows you to set some general state/option variables.
.Sh LIBRARY
OpenGLUT - state
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openglut.h
.Ft  void
.Fn glutSetOption "GLenum eWhat" "int value"
.Sh PARAMETERS
.Pp
.Bf Em
 eWhat
.Ef
    Enumerated parameter ID.
.Pp
.Bf Em
 value
.Ef
    New value.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Stores the 
.Bf Sy
 value
.Ef
 into a state variable named by
.Bf Sy
 eWhat.
.Ef
 
.Pp
Allowable 
.Bf Sy
 eWhat
.Ef
 IDs are:
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_ACTION_ON_WINDOW_CLOSE
.Ef
 
.br
Controls what happens when a window is closed by the
user or system.
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_ACTION_EXIT
.Ef
 
will immediately exit the application (default).
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_ACTION_GLUTMAINLOOP_RETURNS
.Ef
 
will immediately return from the main loop.
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_ACTION_CONTINUE_EXECUTION
.Ef
 
will contine execution of remaining windows.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_INIT_DISPLAY_MODE
.Ef
 
.br
An alternate way to set the display mode for a
new window.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_INIT_WINDOW_HEIGHT
.Ef
 
.br
An alternate way to set the height of new windows.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_INIT_WINDOW_WIDTH
.Ef
 
.br
An alternate way to set the width of new windows.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_INIT_WINDOW_X
.Ef
 
.br
An alternate way to set the initial horizontal position
of new windows.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_INIT_WINDOW_Y
.Ef
 
.br
An alternate way to set the initial vertical position
of new windows.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_RENDERING_CONTEXT
.Ef
 
.br
Set to either 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_CREATE_NEW_CONTEXT
.Ef
 or
.Bf Sy
 GUT_USE_CURRENT_CONTEXT
.Ef
 to indicate
whether to share the current OpenGL rendering context
with new windows.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_WINDOW_CURSOR
.Ef
 
.br
Attempt to set the 
.Bf Li
 current window
.Ef
 's current cursor
as if by glutSetCursor().
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr glutGet 3
.Xr glutDeviceGet 3
.Xr glutGetModifiers 3
.Xr glutLayerGet 3
.Xr glutDestroyWindow 3
.Xr glutMainLoop 3
.Xr glutInitDisplayMode 3
.Xr glutInit 3
.Xr glutInitWindowSize 3
.Xr glutInitWindowPosition 3
.Xr glutSetCursor 3
.fl
.sp 3
