.\" Copyright 2004, the OpenGLUT contributors
.Dt GLUTINITDISPLAYMODE 3 LOCAL
.Dd
.Sh NAME
.Nm glutInitDisplayMode
.Nd Set the window creation display mode.
.Sh LIBRARY
OpenGLUT - window
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openglut.h
.Ft  void
.Fn glutInitDisplayMode "unsigned int displayMode"
.Sh PARAMETERS
.Pp
.Bf Em
 displayMode
.Ef
    Requested display mode bitmask.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
glutInitDisplayMode() allows you to control
the mode for subsequent OpenGLUT windows.
.Pp
Allowable 
.Bf Sy
 displayMode
.Ef
 is a combination of:
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_RGB
.Ef
 
.br
Red, green, blue framebuffer.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_RGBA
.Ef
 
.br
Red, green, blue, alpha framebuffer.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_INDEX
.Ef
 
.br
Indexed color framebuffer.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_SINGLE
.Ef
 
.br
Single-buffered mode.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_DOUBLE
.Ef
 
.br
Double-buffered mode.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_ACCUM
.Ef
 
.br
Accumulation buffer.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_ALPHA
.Ef
 
.br
Alpha channel.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_DEPTH
.Ef
 
.br
Depth buffering.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_STENCIL
.Ef
 
.br
Stencil buffering.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_MULTISAMPLE
.Ef
 
.br
Multisampling mode. (not always available)
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_STEREO
.Ef
 
.br
Left and right framebuffers.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_LUMINANCE
.Ef
 
.br
Greyscale color mode.
.Pp
Additionally, the following 
.Bf Li
 experimental
.Ef
  features
are implemented:
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_OFFSCREEN
.Ef
 
.br
Offscreen windows are very much
like onscreen windows that have been dragged off of the
edge of the screen.  The biggest issue is that offscreen
windows do not support subwindows.  Other than that,
onscreen windows that are dragged off of the edge may not
store graphics that you render (while 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_OFFSCREEN
.Ef
 
windows do), and there is no way to drag an offscreen
window onscreen for user interaction.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_BORDERLESS
.Ef
 
.br
Borderless windows are very experimental,
and their precise behavior is not set in stone.
See also glutCreateMenuWindow().
.Pp
The following are 
.Bf Li
 defaults
.Ef
 :
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_RGB
.Ef
 
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_SINGLE
.Ef
 
.Pp
.Sh CAVEATS
Some display mode features were introduced by OpenGLUT.
.Pp
Not all features or combinations of features are valid for all platforms.
.Pp
There is no way to change the display mode of an open window.
.Pp
.Sh BUGS
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_OFFSCREEN
.Ef
 windows do not work with nVidia cards/drivers.  (Both Win32 and X11)
.Pp
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_BORDERLESS
.Ef
 seems to vary by the window manager on X11, though twm (for example) performs very similarly to WIN32. But KDE's window manager (for example) does not let you send keystrokes to borderless windows without OpenGLUT hacks.
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr glutCreateMenuWindow 3
.Xr glutInit 3
.Xr glutInitWindowSize 3
.Xr glutInitWindowPosition 3
.Xr glutInitDisplayString 3
.Xr glutSwapBuffers 3
.fl
.sp 3
