.\" Copyright 2004, the OpenGLUT contributors
.Dt GLUTDEVICEGET 3 LOCAL
.Dd
.Sh NAME
.Nm glutDeviceGet
.Nd Allows you to get some device state/option variables.
.Sh LIBRARY
OpenGLUT - inputstate
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openglut.h
.Ft  int
.Fn glutDeviceGet "GLenum eWhat"
.Sh PARAMETERS
.Pp
.Bf Em
 eWhat
.Ef
    Enumerated parameter ID.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Retrieves some system-specific information about
attached devices.  Supported device queries are:
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_HAS_JOYSTICK
.Ef
 
.br
Return non-zero if there is a joystick.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_HAS_KEYBOARD
.Ef
 
.br
Return non-zero if there is a keyboard.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_HAS_MOUSE
.Ef
 
.br
Return non-zero if there is a mouse.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_HAS_SPACEBALL
.Ef
 
.br
Return non-zero if there is a spaceball.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_JOYSTICK_AXES
.Ef
 
.br
Return the number of axes for the joystick.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_JOYSTICK_POLL_RATE
.Ef
 
.br
Return the rate (in GLUT timer ticks?) at
which the joystick is polled.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_NUM_MOUSE_BUTTONS
.Ef
 
.br
Return the number of buttons that the user's
mouse has.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_OWNS_JOYSTICK
.Ef
 
.br
Return non-zero if OpenGLUT believes that it has
successfully acquired access to the joystick.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_DEVICE_IGNORE_KEY_REPEAT
.Ef
 
.br
Return non-zero if the 
.Bf Li
 current window
.Ef
  is
set to disable key repeating.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_DEVICE_KEY_REPEAT
.Ef
 
.br
Described as returning the key repeat rate in
one place, but actually returns a key repeat mode.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_HAS_DIAL_AND_BUTTON_BOX
.Ef
 
.br
Return non-zero if a dials-and-buttons box is
present.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_HAS_TABLET
.Ef
 
.br
Return non-zero if a tablet is present.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_NUM_BUTTON_BOX_BUTTONS
.Ef
 
.br
Return the number of buttons on a dials-and-buttons
box, if any.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_NUM_DIALS
.Ef
 
.br
Return the number of dials on a dials-and-buttons
box, if any.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_NUM_SPACEBALL_BUTTONS
.Ef
 
.br
Return the number of buttons on a spaceball, if any.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_NUM_TABLET_BUTTONS
.Ef
 
.br
Return the number of buttons on a tablet, if any.
.Pp
.Sh TODO
Only supports querying for one joystick.
.Pp
Consider moving to a table-based approach rather than a switch(), letting us move to modular functions.
.Pp
.Sh BUGS
Keyboards are optional, but OpenGLUT doesn't detect their absence.
.Pp
Mice are optional, but OpenGLUT is only able to check for them under WIN32.
.Pp
Mice can have a varying number of buttons, but OpenGLUT assumes exactly 3 on UNIX_X11.
.Pp
Not all joystick queries are implemented yet.
.Pp
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_DEVICE_KEY_REPEAT
.Ef
 returns the key repeat mode, but the comment says it returns the 
.Bf Li
 rate
.Ef
 .
.Pp
Some things, like joystick poll rates, seem to have insufficient context.  Which joystick?  Which window? Maybe we assume the 
.Bf Li
 current window
.Ef
  and the current joystick (or the first one)?
.Pp
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_DEVICE_KEY_REPEAT
.Ef
 should probably return 
.Bf Sy
 ogState.KeyRepeat.
.Ef
 
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr glutSetOption 3
.Xr glutGet 3
.Xr glutGetModifiers 3
.Xr glutLayerGet 3
.fl
.sp 3
