.\" Copyright 2004, the OpenGLUT contributors
.Dt GLUTGET 3 LOCAL
.Dd
.Sh NAME
.Nm glutGet
.Nd Allows you to query some general state/option variables.
.Sh LIBRARY
OpenGLUT - state
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openglut.h
.Ft  int
.Fn glutGet "GLenum eWhat"
.Sh PARAMETERS
.Pp
.Bf Em
 eWhat
.Ef
    Enumerated parameter ID.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This function permits you to query for the current value
of many different OpenGLUT state variables.  The current
list is:
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_ACTION_ON_WINDOW_CLOSE
.Ef
 
.br
Allows you to do something other than die if the
user closes one of your windows.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_DISPLAY_MODE_POSSIBLE
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_ELAPSED_TIME
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_INIT_DISPLAY_MODE
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_INIT_STATE
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_INIT_WINDOW_HEIGHT
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_INIT_WINDOW_WIDTH
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_INIT_WINDOW_X
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_INIT_WINDOW_Y
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_MENU_NUM_ITEMS
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_RENDERING_CONTEXT
.Ef
 
.br
Allows you to specify context-sharing when you
open new windows.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_SCREEN_HEIGHT
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_SCREEN_HEIGHT_MM
.Ef
 
.br
Height in millimeters.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_SCREEN_WIDTH
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_SCREEN_WIDTH_MM
.Ef
 
.br
Width in millimeters.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_VERSION
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_WINDOW_ACCUM_ALPHA_SIZE
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_WINDOW_ACCUM_BLUE_SIZE
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_WINDOW_ACCUM_GREEN_SIZE
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_WINDOW_ACCUM_RED_SIZE
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_WINDOW_ALPHA_SIZE
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_WINDOW_BLUE_SIZE
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_WINDOW_BORDER_WIDTH
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_WINDOW_BUFFER_SIZE
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_WINDOW_COLORMAP_SIZE
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_WINDOW_CURSOR
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_WINDOW_DEPTH_SIZE
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_WINDOW_DOUBLEBUFFER
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_WINDOW_FORMAT_ID
.Ef
 
.br
System dependant.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_WINDOW_GREEN_SIZE
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_WINDOW_HEADER_HEIGHT
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_WINDOW_HEIGHT
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_WINDOW_NUM_CHILDREN
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_WINDOW_NUM_SAMPLES
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_WINDOW_PARENT
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_WINDOW_RED_SIZE
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_WINDOW_RGBA
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_WINDOW_STENCIL_SIZE
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_WINDOW_STEREO
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_WINDOW_WIDTH
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_WINDOW_X
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_WINDOW_Y
.Ef
 
.br
.Pp
.Pp
Most of the above are very obvious, and so full documentation
is postponed for now.
.Pp
.Sh TODO
Go back and flesh out the above list.
.Pp
This function is a bit messy, especially the WINCE part.  Fix.
.Pp
Lots of code uses return to hop out.  Since it's such a sprawling function, it's easy to be in the middle and not be 100% sure if there's anything important at the end of the function, or if it is safe to just "drop out" of the current case and head for the bottom.
.Pp
Causes crashes (assertion failure) if you call this before having called glutInit()---other than GLUT_INIT_STATE and GLUT_ELAPSED_TIME.  Because various things can cause OpenGLUT to become deinitialized, we should probably either return default values of some kind or do minimal initialization if we are called without proper initialization.
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr glutSetOption 3
.Xr glutDeviceGet 3
.Xr glutGetModifiers 3
.Xr glutLayerGet 3
.fl
.sp 3
