.\" Copyright 2004, the OpenGLUT contributors
.Dt GLUTINITDISPLAYSTRING 3 LOCAL
.Dd
.Sh NAME
.Nm glutInitDisplayString
.Nd Set the window creation display mode.
.Sh LIBRARY
OpenGLUT - window
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openglut.h
.Ft  void
.Fn glutInitDisplayString "const char *displayMode"
.Sh PARAMETERS
.Pp
.Bf Em
 displayMode
.Ef
    Requested display mode string.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
glutInitDisplayString() permits you to define a display
mode for subsequent windows that you open.  In most
regards, control is at least as fine as with
glutInitDisplaymode().
.Pp
The 
.Bf Sy
 displayMode
.Ef
 parameter is case-sensitive, and
tokens are separated by ASCII TABs (\\t) and SPACEs.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 index
.Ef
 
.br
Enables 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_INDEX.
.Ef
 
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 luminance
.Ef
 
.br
Enables 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_LUMINANCE.
.Ef
 
Enables 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_STENCIL.
.Ef
 
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 red
.Ef
 
.br
Number of red channel bits.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 green
.Ef
 
.br
Number of green channel bits.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 blue
.Ef
 
.br
Number of blue channel bits.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 alpha
.Ef
 
.br
Number of alpha channel bits.
Enables 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_ALPHA.
.Ef
 
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 rgb
.Ef
 
.br
Number of 
.Bf Sy
 RGB
.Ef
 channel bits, no aplha bits.
Enables 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_RGB.
.Ef
 
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 rgba
.Ef
 
.br
Number of 
.Bf Sy
 RGBA
.Ef
 channel bits.
Enables 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_RGBA.
.Ef
 
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 depth
.Ef
 
.br
Number of depth buffer bits.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 stencil
.Ef
 
.br
Number of stencil buffer bits.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 double
.Ef
 
.br
Enables 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_DOUBLE.
.Ef
 
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 single
.Ef
 
.br
Enables 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_SINGLE.
.Ef
 
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 stereo
.Ef
 
.br
Enables 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_STERO.
.Ef
 
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 acca
.Ef
 
.br
Number of 
.Bf Sy
 RGBA
.Ef
 accumulation bits.
Enables 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_ACCUM.
.Ef
 
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 acc
.Ef
 
.br
Number of 
.Bf Sy
 RGB
.Ef
 accumulation bits.
Enables 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_ACCUM.
.Ef
 
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 samples
.Ef
 
.br
Number of samples for GLX's 
.Bf Sy
 SGIS_Multisample.
.Ef
 
Enables 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_MULTISAMPLE.
.Ef
 
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 buffer
.Ef
 
.br
[TODO] Sets bits in index mode?
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 conformant
.Ef
 
.br
[TODO] Conformant with what?
Enables 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_DEPTH.
.Ef
 
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 slow
.Ef
 
.br
[TODO] Indicates if a frame-buffer is slow.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 num
.Ef
 
.br
[TODO] Appears to select a frame-buffer configuration
by number from an unspecified list.  Probably
very non-portable.
.Pp
A special capability  name indicating where the
value represents the Nth frame buffer configuration
matching the description string
.Pp
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 win32pdf
.Ef
 
.br
Win32 specific: Pixel Format Descriptor
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 win32pfd
.Ef
 
.br
Win32 specific: Pixel Format Descriptor
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 xvisual
.Ef
 
.br
X11 specific: X Visual
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 xstaticgray
.Ef
 
.br
X11 specific: "staticgray" mode.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 xgrayscale
.Ef
 
.br
X11 specific: "grayscale" mode.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 xstaticcolor
.Ef
 
.br
X11 specific: "staticcolor" mode.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 xpseudocolor
.Ef
 
.br
X11 specific: "pseudocolor" mode.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 xtruecolor
.Ef
 
.br
X11 specific: "trueolor" mode.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 xdirectcolor
.Ef
 
.br
X11 specific: "directcolor" mode.
.Pp
.Sh CAVEATS
Conflicting modes, such as 
.Bf Sy
 single
.Ef
 and 
.Bf Sy
 double
.Ef
 have the same interaction as for glutInitDisplayMode().
.Pp
.Sh TODO
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_BORDERLESS
.Ef
 and 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_OFFSCREEN
.Ef
 are not represented.
.Pp
Not all features appear to be implemented.  In particular, numeric parameters and comparator specifications are lacking. See GLUT 3.7 sources for example.
.Pp
PyOpenGL <a href="http://pyopengl.sourceforge.net/documentation/manual/glutInitDisplayString.3GLUT.html"> glutInitDisplayString</a> documentation.
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr glutInit 3
.Xr glutInitWindowPosition 3
.Xr glutInitWindowSize 3
.Xr glutInitDisplayMode 3
.fl
.sp 3
