.\" Copyright 2004, the OpenGLUT contributors
.Dt GLUTGAMEMODEGET 3 LOCAL
.Dd
.Sh NAME
.Nm glutGameModeGet
.Nd Return the value of a game mode parameter
.Sh LIBRARY
OpenGLUT - gamemode
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openglut.h
.Ft  int
.Fn glutGameModeGet "GLenum pname"
.Sh PARAMETERS
.Pp
.Bf Em
 pname
.Ef
     The parameter value to be returned
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Bf Sy
 pname
.Ef
 is one of:
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_GAME_MODE_ACTIVE
.Ef
 
.br
Return non-zero if we are presently in gamemode.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_GAME_MODE_POSSIBLE
.Ef
 
.br
Return whether the requested gamemode settings are viable.
(May also actually change the mode?)  Does not necessarily
tell you whether entering gamemode will have any effect.
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_GAME_MODE_WIDTH
.Ef
 
.br
Return the game mode width. (in pixels)
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_GAME_MODE_HEIGHT
.Ef
 
.br
Return the game mode height. (in pixels)
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_GAME_MODE_PIXEL_DEPTH
.Ef
 
.br
Return the game mode pixel depth. (in bits)
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_GAME_MODE_REFRESH_RATE
.Ef
 
.br
Return the game mode vertical refresh frequency. (in Hz)
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_GAME_MODE_DISPLAY_CHANGED
.Ef
 
.br
Return non-zero if we are presently in gamemode.
(Same as 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_GAME_MODE_ACTIVE.)
.Ef
 
.Pp
If 
.Bf Sy
 pname
.Ef
 is unknown, a warning is printed and a value of
 -1 is returned.
.Pp
.Sh TODO
Documentation
.Pp
OpenGLUT intrepretation of GLUT_GAME_MODE_DISPLAY_CHANGED
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr glutGameModeString 3
.Xr glutEnterGameMode 3
.Xr glutLeaveGameMode 3
.Xr glutGameModeGet 3
.fl
.sp 3
