.\" Copyright 2004, the OpenGLUT contributors
.Dt GLUTSTROKEWIDTH 3 LOCAL
.Dd
.Sh NAME
.Nm glutStrokeWidth
.Nd Returns the width in pixels of a character in a given font.
.Sh LIBRARY
OpenGLUT - fonts
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openglut.h
.Ft  float
.Fn glutStrokeWidth "void *fontID" "int character"
.Sh PARAMETERS
.Pp
.Bf Em
 fontID
.Ef
    A GLUT stroked font identifier.
.Pp
.Bf Em
 character
.Ef
 A character code.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This function reports how far the model space origin will advance
if you putput this 
.Bf Sy
 character
.Ef
 in the font named by 
.Bf Sy
 fontID.
.Ef
 
Not all letters will use their full width, especially in
fixed-width fonts.
.Pp
Returns 0 if 
.Bf Sy
 character
.Ef
 is out of range or if the
.Bf Sy
 fontID
.Ef
 is invalid.
.Pp
.Sh CAVEATS
Historically, this function has been described as returning a pixel-width, but was implemented to return the width in model-space units, rounded to integers. GLUT never resolved this, and freeglut duplicated the confusion. OpenGLUT has decided to stay in model-space and to return the unrounded floating point value. An unreleased GLUT 3.8 was supposed to include glutStrokeWidthf() and glutStrokeLengthf() (note the *f suffixes), but that is not in wide use.
.Pp
.Sh TODO
Determine if any glyphs are either wider than this function or if they render outside of the bounding box given by 
.Bf Li
 (0,-descent)
.Ef
  by 
.Bf Li
 (width,height-descent)
.Ef
 .
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr glutStrokeCharacter 3
.Xr glutStrokeLength 3
.Xr glutStrokeHeight glutBitmapWidth 3
.fl
.sp 3
