.\" Copyright 2004, the OpenGLUT contributors
.Dt GLUTSETCURSOR 3 LOCAL
.Dd
.Sh NAME
.Nm glutSetCursor
.Nd Set the cursor image to be used for the current window
.Sh LIBRARY
OpenGLUT - window
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openglut.h
.Ft  void
.Fn glutSetCursor "int cursorID"
.Sh PARAMETERS
.Pp
.Bf Em
 cursorID
.Ef
   Name of desired cursor.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
For the 
.Bf Li
 current window
.Ef
 , sets the mouse-cursor to
one of a set of predefined images.  The GLUT symbolic constant
IDs are:
.Pp
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_CURSOR_RIGHT_ARROW
.Ef
 
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_CURSOR_LEFT_ARROW
.Ef
 
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_CURSOR_INFO
.Ef
 
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_CURSOR_DESTROY
.Ef
 
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_CURSOR_HELP
.Ef
 
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_CURSOR_CYCLE
.Ef
 
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_CURSOR_SPRAY
.Ef
 
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_CURSOR_WAIT
.Ef
 
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_CURSOR_TEXT
.Ef
 
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_CURSOR_CROSSHAIR
.Ef
 
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_CURSOR_UP_DOWN
.Ef
 
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_CURSOR_LEFT_RIGHT
.Ef
 
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_CURSOR_TOP_SIDE
.Ef
 
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_CURSOR_BOTTOM_SIDE
.Ef
 
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_CURSOR_LEFT_SIDE
.Ef
 
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_CURSOR_RIGHT_SIDE
.Ef
 
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_CURSOR_TOP_LEFT_CORNER
.Ef
 
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_CURSOR_TOP_RIGHT_CORNER
.Ef
 
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_CURSOR_BOTTOM_RIGHT_CORNER
.Ef
 
 - 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_CURSOR_BOTTOM_LEFT_CORNER
.Ef
 
.Pp
Additionally, there are the following special cases:
.Pp
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_CURSOR_FULL_CROSSHAIR
.Ef
 This cursor, where supported,
draws a crosshair the full width and height of the display.
It may be mapped by OpenGLUT to the 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_CURSOR_CROSSHAIR,
.Ef
 
however.
.Pp
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_CURSOR_NONE
.Ef
 Turn the mouse cursor invisibile.
.Pp
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_CURSOR_INHERIT
.Ef
 Take the cursor that the parent
window provides.
.Pp
.Pp
.Sh CAVEATS
The X branch of OpenGLUT does not do thorough error checking.
.Pp
The X branch of OpenGLUT always converts 
.Bf Sy
 FULL_CROSSHAIR
.Ef
 to 
.Bf Sy
 CROSSHAIR.
.Ef
 This is acceptable, but if a host system supports a fullscreen crosshair, it would be nice to support that.
.Pp
Out of range 
.Bf Sy
 cursorID
.Ef
 values generate warnings.
.Pp
Has no visible effect if the 
.Bf Li
 current window
.Ef
  is of type 
.Bf Sy
 GLUT_OFFSCREEN
.Ef
 .
.Pp
.Sh BUGS
Some 
.Bf Sy
 cursorID
.Ef
 values are not yet supported on WIN32.
.Pp
.fl
.sp 3
